---
title: Q&A
date: 2020-05-25 12:01:52
permalink: /pages/9cc27d
# sidebar: false
article: false
---

### Software prompts insufficient video memory or insufficient memory how to solve

- Insufficient video memory.

- Interleaved frames **1080P video** requires at least **2G video memory**, **4K video** requires at least **6G video memory**. Please try to enable interlaced frames to avoid exceeding the memory limit.

- If you are sure your machine's video memory is large enough, you can try **restarting the machine to see if the problem is solved**.

- In the output resolution settings, reduce the video resolution by trying to enable half-precision mode in the output quality settings. You can also try turning down the optical flow scale in the complementary frame settings (set to **2.0 and above** will greatly increase the video memory footprint, so be sure to check the value of this option).

- Insufficient memory.

  - For machines running with less than 16G of RAM, it is recommended to use the **Manually specify buffer memory size** function within the **Output quality settings** to specify the memory usage size. Recommended minimum value: 2G.

### Is it possible to resume progress if I quit in the middle of a frame fill? Can't find the progress?

- Click **Automatically find progress** in the work status recovery.
- If the software shows "No progress found" after clicking this button, please follow these steps to troubleshoot the problem.
  - Confirm the output folder exists
  - Make sure there is a video file named like `chunk-xxx-yyyyyyy-zzzzzz` in the output folder, if it does not exist, then there is no work progress to be recovered
  - Make sure the **last 10 digits** of the output folder is the same as the **task id** of the input file, if not, please change the task id manually and click the button to try again.
  - If you still can't solve the problem, please move your mouse over the option button, read the option description carefully, and fill in the appropriate values for **start block count and start input frame count** as prompted.

### How to do if the frame fill effect is not silky smooth

- This situation may be the original video with duplicate frames, or animation (with 1 shot N), you can try to go to **Transition recognition and animation optimization tab** to turn on duplicate frame removal, and adjust the de-emphasis value.

### What about the noisy frames in the exported video

- Go to the encoding quality settings **pull down the rendering quality CRF value** before making up the frames, or **adjust the suppression preset**.

### What about low graphics card occupancy?

- First, in the task manager, tap the small triangle next to 3D occupancy and change it to **CUDA**.
- **CUDA occupancy is generally around 85% or higher is normal. **CUDA
- If the occupancy is still low, please check if the CPU utilization reaches 100%; if it reaches 100%, the software is experiencing a CPU bottleneck. In this case, you can adjust other options until the graphics card occupancy reaches 80% or more.

### What if there is a distortion in the video frames?

- If this happens in anime frames, ** it is recommended to turn off duplicate frame removal, or turn down the de-emphasis value, or try to increase the optical flow scale to reduce the possibility of jelly appearing on the screen. **
- If you have video editing skills, you can be patient and use different parameters to make several frames and splice each clip with good results.
- If the embedded subtitles (hard subtitles, burnt subtitles) are distorted, there is no better solution. If anime is framed, it is recommended to use non-subtitled sources for framing, and then find subtitles for embedding.

### Does long time frame filling hurt graphics card?

- Running CUDA for long periods of time does not generally affect the life of the graphics card, but if the cooling measures are not done properly, the temperature is too high, or if you run the frame filler program after overclocking it, it can still damage the graphics card.
- According to the EULA (Software Use User Agreement), SVFI is not responsible for hardware damage caused by frame patching.

### What if the video memory is not full?

- Video memory is not necessarily the more it is used the faster it is, running SVFI programs even if the video memory is full will not necessarily get a speed boost, because there are rendering queue length limits, machine power limitations and a lot of other constraints.

### What about Broken Pipe?

- You can try to reduce the parameters selected by the N-card hard-coded preset in the output quality settings, or turn off this feature.
- Use CPU H.265 Fast or ProRes encoding

### Fix SVFI window size exception

Open the SVFI location from Steam, find SVFI.Community.exe in the Community version
Professional version to find SVFI.
Right click, Properties, Compatibility, Change High DPI settings, Replace High DPI scaling behavior, System

### Less features available than in the tutorial?

- Not updated to the latest version
- Some features are in beta testing and will be disclosed later
- The purchased version is not the pro version

### How to do overscoring only, but not to make up frames at the same time

   After setting the parameters, change the frame rate to double, and then click on one button to suppress (without clicking on one button to suppress)

### How to do slow-motion framing (frame up, etc.)

For the real shot, refer to the time remapping in the custom code
Open the animation first, and then refer to the time remapping in the custom code, or use AE and other post-processing after the frames are made up by one shot and three divisions, such as variable speed
