---
title: Tips
date: 2022-08-19 15:17:25
permalink: /pages/18309a/
---



## Recommended task presets

For **compressed mode**, 2K+ resolution **be sure** to use H265 or ProRes encoding

### Community Edition

#### anime

| Scene | De-Emphasis Mode | Compressed Mode | Optical Flow Settings | Patch Frame Model |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| quality | single recognition 0.8 | CPU H.265 medium | optical flow 0.5 | rife 2.3 |
| General | Single Recognition 0.8 / One Shot Two | CPU H.265 fast | Optical Streaming 0.5 | rife 2.3 |
| Speed (N Card) | Single Recognition 0.8 | NVENC H.264 slow | Optical Streaming 0.5 | rife 4.2 |
| Speed (N Card) | Single Recognition 0.8 | NVENC H.264 slow | Optical Streaming 0.25 | rife 4.2 |

#### Real People

| Scenes | De-Emphasis Mode | Compression Mode | Optical Flow Settings | Patch Frame Model |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| quality | off de-duplication | CPU H.265 medium | optical flow 1.0 | rife 2.3 |
| General | De-Emphasis Off | CPU H.265 fast | Optical Streaming 0.5 | rife 2.3 |
| speed | de-duplication off | NVENC H.264 slow | optical streaming 1.0 | rife 4.2 |
| speed | off de-duplication | NVENC H.264 slow | optical streaming 0.5 | rife 4.2 |

### Professional Edition

#### anime

:::warning
Be sure to make sure your player can play H.265 10bit.
Otherwise choose H.264 veryslow
:::

| scene | de-emphasis mode | compression mode | optical flow settings | frame model |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Extreme Quality | One Shot Two | CPU H.265 10bit veryslow | Optical Flow 0.5 | IFU|
| quality | one shot two | cpu h.264 veryslow | optical streaming 0.5 | rpr v7 2.3 |
| regular | one-shot | CPU H.264 slow | optical 0.25 | official 2.3 |
| speed | one shot two | NVENCC H.264 slow | optical flow 0.5 | rife 4.x|
| Extreme Speed | Single Recognition 0.8 | NVENCC H.264 slow | Optical Streaming 0.25 | rife 4.x|

#### real people

:::warning
Be sure to make sure your player can play H.265 10bit.
Otherwise choose H.264 veryslow
:::

| scene | de-duplication mode | compression mode | optical flow settings | complementary frame model |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Extreme Quality | Off De-Emphasis | CPU H.265 10bit veryslow | Optical Flow 1.0 | rife 2.3 |
| quality | off-de-duplication | CPU H.264 veryslow | optical streaming 1.0 | rife 2.3 |
| General | De-duplication | CPU H.264 slow | Optical Streaming 0.5 | rife 2.3 |
| speed | de-duplication off | NVENCC H.264 slow | optical streaming 1.0 | rife 4.2 |
| speed | off de-duplication | NVENCC H.264 slow | optical streaming 0.5 | rife 4.2 |

## Usage tips

- Most of the options in SVFI are not "numeric" (e.g. transition parameters, de-emphasis parameters, CRF, optical flow scale, complementary frame model). If you don't know, it is recommended to follow the instructions strictly or **default** to choose.
- **For each number with (?) or (!) option, mouse hovering over it will show the corresponding explanation. **
- If **pursuing quality**, all **select presets above regular**; **speed** options are relatively ineffective.
- For CRF if you do not have the corresponding knowledge, you will choose parameter 16 by default or learn the relevant knowledge through Baidu.
- Mouse hover over **Transition Options** to see **corresponding instructions**. Transition options usually **parameters set at 12** can be.
- The de-emphasis option is only needed for 2d anime to use the de-emphasis option for 3d, and for real people to choose not to remove repeated frames.
- Community version: a single recognition function, according to user feedback ** parameter value set at 0.8-1.0 effect is better **.
- Professional version: function **1 shot 2 ** more conservative, software ** less error **. Function **1 shoot 3 and above** more aggressive and silky smooth, but **problems and errors are often more** (such as the disappearance of the screen, etc.).
- If there is no special case, we recommend you to choose function 1 shoot 2, and all other options parameters will be fine by default.
- In svfi frame fill, generally it will occupy CPU (when CPU encoding is selected) and cuda of n card. if CPU is always full and cuda occupancy fluctuates greatly, then CPU is the bottleneck. In this case, you can **adjust the suppression preset or change the encoder to speed up** (e.g. CPU H.265 very slow to fast, CPU H.264 slow to NVENC H.264 slow).
- Note that if the CPU is not the bottleneck, it is recommended to use **better encoders and presets**. This is because the cuda of the graphics card determines the frame rate and the CPU determines the encoding speed. The frame rate can only be improved by **changing to a better graphics card**, but **encoding speed can be considered by choosing faster** encoders and presets with slightly lower quality.
- CPU encoding for soft coding, soft coding** generally slow file size and good quality**.
- NVENC, QSV, VCE for hardware encoding, where NVENC using nVidia graphics, QSV using intel core, VCE using AMD graphics, hardware encoding characteristics, fast, large files, in the case of low bit rate small files, the quality is worse than the CPU.
- Hard coding preference NVENC, in the N card hard coding preset (you can mouse hover to see the description) this item, you can check their own graphics card hard coding preset at <https://developer.nvidia.com/video-encode-and-decode-gpu-support-matrix-new> The 20 series and 30 series are generally 7th+.
- Hard coding will have a certain load on the graphics card, if you choose NVENC Broken Pipe error, then **reduce the N card hard coding preset or switch to the core coding QSV**. If you still have the same error, **use CPU**.

- Superscoring and framing recommendations.
If you use cugan, esrgan and other algorithms for superscoring, it is recommended to do superscoring and frame filling separately, otherwise there will be many problems with overflowing video memory (`CUDA out of memory`)
If you have only 1 graphics card available for superscoring, it is recommended to close other software that may occupy graphics memory before starting the task. If you do not mind the trouble, because the Windows desktop itself will also take up a certain amount of video memory, if your computer has a nuclear display, you can restart the computer into the BIOS to set the nuclear display output, and the display signal plugged into the motherboard, and then turn on the computer to use SVFI, so that you can get the maximum available video memory, and the processing speed of superscoring frames will be a little faster.
- Recommendations for suppression settings.
If the suppression group is not very strict about suppression, you can use hardware coding (NVENC, VCE, QSV, etc.) to avoid CPU suppression bottleneck, which will cause the occupancy rate of the graphics card to drop.
CRF is set to 16, the rest is done as described above
- The most commonly used models for complementary frames.
Use the 2.3 model
- The most commonly used model for anime overscoring.
Use CUGAN model
