---
title: What is frame rate, resolution and bit rate
date: 2022-08-19 12:49:11
permalink: /pages/dc46b8/
---

::: tip Notes:
The following content is taken from [FXXS-Encode-Guide](https://github.com/ted423/FXXS-Encode-Guide), thanks for their efforts
:::

## What is frame rate and what is resolution

Video is made up of consecutive images. Each image, we call it a frame. An image is made up of pixels. The number of pixels in an image is called the resolution of the image. For example, an image of 1920x1080 means that it is composed of 1920x1080 pixels. The resolution of the video is the area of each frame of the image.

The number of images(we usually call it `frames`) played each second, is called the **frame-rate** of this video. Common frame rates conclude `24000/1001=23.976`, `30000/1001=29.970`, `60000/1001=59.940`, `25.000`, `50.000`, etc. For example, 23.976 means 24,000 images played in 1001 seconds. The frame rate of the video can be **constant (cfr, Const Frame-Rate)** or **variable (vfr, Variable Frame-Rate)**

::: warning
Please note that SVFI does not support variable frame rate (vfr) processing. Such video input will cause SVFI output video-audio-out-of-sync content.
:::

### What is bit rate?

**Bitrate** is defined as the video file size divided by the time. The unit is generally Kbps (Kbit/s) or Mbps (Mbit/s). Note that 1B(Byte)=8b(bit). So a 24 minute, 900MB video:

- Volume: `900MB = 900MByte = 7200Mbit`

- Time: `24min = 1440s`

- Bit rate: `7200/1440 = 5000 Kbps = 5Mbps`

When the time of the video files is basically the same (for example, an episode is about 24 minutes), the bit rate and volume are basically equivalent, and they are both used to describe the size of the video. Files with the same length and resolution have different volumes, which are actually different in bit rates.

The bit rate can also be interpreted as the total amount of data used to record the video per unit time. The higher the bit rate of the video, the more data is used to record the video, and the potential interpretation is that the video can have better quality. (Note that it is only potential. Later, we will analyze why high bit rate does not necessarily equal high image quality)

### Rate control method

Bit rate control refers to the process of determining the output bit rate in video coding. The commonly used bit rate control methods are:

#### VBR(Variable Bitrate)

Dynamic bit rate, that is, there is no fixed bit rate, the audio and video compression software immediately determines what bit rate to use according to the complexity of the audio and video data during compression. This is a way to take into account the file size based on quality.

Compared to CBR
Applicable scenarios: VBR is suitable for scenarios that are not very limited in bandwidth and encoding speed, but have high quality requirements. Especially in complex scenes of motion, it can maintain relatively high definition and stable output quality, which is suitable for on-demand, recording or storage systems that are not sensitive to delay.

**Features:**

- The bit rate is unstable, the quality is basically stable and very high;
- The encoding speed is generally slow, and the on-demand, download and storage systems can be used first, not suitable for low-latency, live broadcast systems;
- This model does not consider the output video bandwidth at all. For the sake of quality, it takes up as much bit rate as needed, and it does not consider the encoding speed very much;

#### CQP (Constant QP)

> Should count the way the encoder implements VBR

Fixed QP, the simplest bit rate control method. Each frame of image is encoded according to a specific QP. It is unknown how much data is encoded in each frame. It is neither a rate priority model nor a quality priority model, but it is Implement the simplest model;

Applicable scenarios: This method is generally not recommended, because this method does not consider the complexity of the encoded content and processes each frame with the same compression ratio. The video quality and bit rate are not fixed. Personally, I think that only very simple scenes, such as static scenes with little motion, can be tried. When encountering complex scenes, the bit rate fluctuates greatly. Or it can be used in algorithm research or verification.

**Features:**

- The instantaneous bit rate will fluctuate with the complexity of the scene;
- The encoding speed is fast, the regulation is the simplest, and the QP value of each frame is the same;

#### **CRF(Constant Rate Factor)**

It should be counted how the encoder implements VBR
Constant bit rate factor. Take a certain "visual quality" as the output target. This is achieved by reducing the quality of frames that are bitrate-intensive but difficult to perceive with the naked eye (high-speed motion or rich in texture) and increasing the bitrate of static frames.

** Features: QP changes between frames, QP changes in intra-frame macroblocks, the output bit rate is unknown, and the visual quality of each frame output is basically constant. This method is equivalent to the fixed quality mode + the method of limiting the peak rate of the bit rate. **

Applicable scenarios: It is suitable for occasions that have certain requirements for video quality. The CRF value can be simply understood as a fixed output value expected for video quality. It is hoped that whether it is in complex moving scenes or in simple static situations, there is a stable The subjective video quality of the user can choose this mode, which is a video quality priority model. Video quality can be simply understood as the clarity of the video, the fineness of the pixels and the smoothness of the video.

**Features:**

- Similar to constant QP, but pursues constant subjectively perceived quality, instantaneous bit rate fluctuates with scene complexity, and QP values ​​vary between video frames or between internal macroblocks;
- For fast-moving or detailed scenes, the quantization distortion will be appropriately increased (because the human eye is not sensitive), and conversely, the quantization distortion will be reduced for static or flat areas;

#### CBR (Constant Bitrate)

Fixed bit rate, which means that the file is one bit rate from beginning to end. Compared with VBR and ABR, the compressed file size is very large, and the video quality will not be significantly improved compared with VBR and ABR.

**Features:**

- The bit rate is stable, but the quality is not stable, and the effective utilization of bandwidth is not high, especially when the value is set unreasonably, in complex motion scenes, if the set bit rate is not enough, the picture will be very blurred, which greatly affects the viewing experience;
- But the output video bit rate is basically stable, which is easy to calculate the video size;

::: tip
SVFI has built-in `rendering quality CRF` (ie CRF or CQP) and `target code rate` (CBR) two rate control schemes.
When using `Render Quality CRF` to control the rate, SVFI uses CRF control for encoders other than `NVENC`; uses CQP rate control for `NVENC` encoders.

When using `target bit rate` to control the bit rate, the fixed bit rate is uniformly used.
:::